#summary What can MOE do?

= Introduction =

To run MOE, run the Moe binary. The first argument should be the "directive" to invoke. Most directives take in one or more command options. Running a MOE directive with the "--help" option will list the command options needed for that directive.

= The Directives =

==hello==
The simplest directive.
{{{
$ Moe hello
Hello MOE.
}}}

==check_config==
The check_config directive checks that our configuration is valid.
{{{
$ Moe check_config --config_file moe_config.txt
Reading config file from moe_config.txt... Done
}}}

==highest_revision==
MOE often needs to know the highest revision in a source control repository:
{{{
$ Moe highest_revision --config_file moe_config.txt --repository googlecode{3}
Reading config file from moe_config.txt... Done
Highest revision in repository "googlecode": 3

$ Moe highest_revision --config_file moe_config.txt --repository googlecode
Reading config file from moe_config.txt... Done
Highest revision in repository "googlecode": 5
}}}
Note that the --repository flag takes a [ExpressionLanguages#Revision_Expressions Revision Expression] stating the repository and the max revision to look from. If no max revision is specified, the default is HEAD.

==create_codebase==
Gets the latest version of a repository as in another repository. For instance, if we want to get the latest version of our code as in the repository "googlecode", we run:
{{{
$ Moe create_codebase --config_file moe_config.txt --codebase "googlecode"
Reading config file from moe_config.txt... Done
Evaluating Codebase "googlecode"...
    Creating from "googlecode"... /tmp/svn_export_googlecode_5_8020984248422681827
DONE: Evaluating Codebase "googlecode": /tmp/svn_export_googlecode_5_8020984248422681827
Codebase "googlecode" created at /tmp/svn_export_googlecode_5_8020984248422681827
}}}
The --codebase flag takes a [ExpressionLanguages#Codebase_Expressions Codebase Expression].

==change==
Creates a (pending) change.
The following will create the codebase (just as if we ran create_codebase) from the internal repository. It will also create a Writer from the googlecode repository:
{{{
$ Moe change --config_file moe_config.txt --codebase "internal" --destination "googlecode"
Reading config file from moe_config.txt... Done
Creating a change in "googlecode" with contents "internal"
Evaluating Codebase "internal"...
    Creating from "internal": /tmp/expanded_tar_86346705806076214
DONE: Evaluating Codebase "internal": /tmp/expanded_tar_86346705806076214
Creating Writer "googlecode"... /tmp/svn_writer_7_2455561459661896424
Putting files from Codebase into Writer... Done
Created Draft Revisions: /tmp/svn_writer_7_2455561459661896424
}}}
The [ExpressionLanguages Expression Language] page describes in more detail how to specify additional options, as --codebase and --destination both take Codebase Expressions.
In the example above, a useful option is to be able to specify a translator. To do this to translate the codebase created from the internal repository from an internal project space to a public project space, use
{{{
$ Moe change --config_file moe_config.txt --codebase "internal>public" --destination "googlecode"
Reading config file from moe_config.txt... Done
Creating a change in "googlecode" with contents "internal>public"
Evaluating Codebase "internal>public"...
    Creating from "internal"... /tmp/expanded_tar_7371717651236131767
    Translating /tmp/expanded_tar_7371717651236131767 from project space "internal" to "public"... 
        Editing /tmp/expanded_tar_7371717651236131767 with editor "scrub_step"... /tmp/expanded_tar_3148939818423891966
        Editing /tmp/expanded_tar_3148939818423891966 with editor "shell step shell_step"... /tmp/shell_run_3190101037665555028
        Editing /tmp/shell_run_3190101037665555028 with editor "rename step rename_step"... /tmp/rename_run_8812192545396128575
    DONE: Translating /tmp/expanded_tar_7371717651236131767 from project space "internal" to "public": /tmp/rename_run_8812192545396128575
DONE: Evaluating Codebase "internal>public": /tmp/rename_run_8812192545396128575
Creating Writer "googlecode"... /tmp/svn_writer_5_1004792749160326091
Putting files from Codebase into Writer... Done
Created Draft Revision: /tmp/svn_writer_5_1004792749160326091
}}}

==find_equivalence==
Equivalences between revisions are stored in the MOE database and can be accessed using the find_equivalence directive.

The --revision flag takes a [ExpressionLanguages#Revision_Expressions Revision Expression] describing the revision to find equivalences to in the repository given to the --in_repository flag.
{{{
$ Moe find_equivalence --config_file "moe_config.txt" --db "moe_db.txt" --revision "googlecode{2}" --in_repository "internal"
Reading config file from moe_config.txt... Done
"googlecode{2}" == "internal{12345678}"
}}}

==revisions_since_equivalence==
This finds all of the revisions in a repository since the last equivalence between that repository and another repository. The --from_repository flag takes a [ExpressionLanguages#Revision_Expressions Revision Expression], allowing optional specification of the highest revision in that repository to consider. Note that to_repository is just the name of the other repository.
{{{
$ Moe revisions_since_equivalence --config_file "moe_config.txt" --db "moe_db.txt" --from_repository "internal{12345678}" --to_repository "googlecode"
Reading config file from moe_config.txt... Done
Revisions found: internal{12345678}, internal{12345677}, internal{12345676}
}}}

==diff_codebases==
Prints the diff between two codebases, which are specified by [ExpressionLanguages#Codebase_Expressions Codebase Expressions]. For example, you could diff "`googlecode(revision=5)`" with "`googlecode(revision=6)`" to see what changes revision 6 made to 5. Or you could diff "`internal>public`" with "`googlecode`" to see what differences the translated internal repository has with the head revision of the googlecode repository. This directive generates both codebases and then diffs them.
{{{
$ Moe diff_codebases --config_file moe_config.txt --codebase1 "internal>public" --codebase2 "googlecode"
Reading config file from moe_config.txt... Done
Evaluating Codebase "internal>public"... 
  Creating from "internal"... /tmp/expanded_tar_899180868266910054
  Translating /tmp/expanded_tar_899180868266910054 from project space "internal" to "public"... 
    Editing /tmp/expanded_tar_899180868266910054 with editor "scrub_step"... /tmp/expanded_tar_1226026764668686766
    Editing /tmp/expanded_tar_1226026764668686766 with editor "shell step shell_step"... /tmp/shell_run_4330577915735429998
    Editing /tmp/shell_run_4330577915735429998 with editor "rename step rename_step"... /tmp/rename_run_1419770579287133662
  DONE: Translating /tmp/expanded_tar_899180868266910054 from project space "internal" to "public": /tmp/rename_run_1419770579287133662
DONE: Evaluating Codebase "internal>public": /tmp/rename_run_1419770579287133662
Evaluating Codebase "googlecode"... 
  Creating from "googlecode"... /tmp/svn_export_googlecode_5_6692355302117543190
DONE: Evaluating Codebase "googlecode": /tmp/svn_export_googlecode_5_6692355302117543190
Codebases "internal>public" and "googlecode" are identical
}}}

==determine_metadata==
This directive combines the metadata (i.e. author, date, description, and parents) of the revisions specified by the [ExpressionLanguages#Revision_Expressions Revision Expression]. The migration directive makes use of this directive when combining multiple changes in one repository into one change in another repository. Generally, users won't explicitly use this directive.
{{{
$ Moe determine_metadata --config_file moe_config.txt --revisions "googlecode{3,4}"
Reading config file from moe_config.txt... Done
id: 3, 4
author: user1@google.com, user2@google.com
date: 2011-06-27T23:43:00.581857Z, 2011-07-13T21:48:36.665584Z
description: A fourth commit.
     Change on 2011-06-27T23:43:00.581857Z by user1@google.com
-------------
A third commit.
     Change on 2011-07-13T21:48:36.665584Z by user2@google.com
General MOE update. Includes beginnings of Mercurial support.
parents: [googlecode{2}, googlecode{3}]
}}}

==one_migration==
This directive performs a single migration. Each migration corresponds to one change command. Like the change command, one_migration is directional, and makes a draft revision. It differs from change in that it gets (and combines) the metadata from the revisions listed in --revisions_to_migrate to use when preparing the change for submission. This directive generally should not be called explicitly; use change to generate a draft revision without metadata, and the migrate directive (next) for draft revisions including metadata.
{{{
$ Moe one_migration --config_file moe_config.txt --db moe_db.txt --from_revision "internal{22651520}" --to_revision "googlecode" --revisions_to_migrate "internal{22651520,22648237}"
Reading config file from moe_config.txt... Done
Evaluating Codebase "internal(revision=22651520)>public"... 
    Creating from "internal(revision=22651520)"... /tmp/expanded_tar_5873094244714001923
    Translating /tmp/expanded_tar_5873094244714001923 from project space "internal" to "public"... 
        Editing /tmp/expanded_tar_5873094244714001923 with editor "scrub_step"... /tmp/expanded_tar_1816569743026066832
        Editing /tmp/expanded_tar_1816569743026066832 with editor "shell step shell_step"... /tmp/shell_run_7144616482586614871
        Editing /tmp/shell_run_7144616482586614871 with editor "rename step rename_step"... /tmp/rename_run_3166784235682369951
    DONE: Translating /tmp/expanded_tar_5873094244714001923 from project space "internal" to "public": /tmp/rename_run_3166784235682369951
DONE: Evaluating Codebase "internal(revision=22651520)>public": /tmp/rename_run_3166784235682369951
Creating Writer "googlecode"... /tmp/svn_writer_5_1251170501963695488
Creating a change in "googlecode" with revisions "internal{22651520,22648237}"
Putting files from Codebase into Writer... Done
Created Draft Revision: /tmp/svn_writer_5_1251170501963695488
}}}